so just a couple of announcements before
we jump in today with moist critical
critical with a k on september 4th we're
going to be
uh releasing coaching we're going to
have a bunch of spots kind of opening up
for more coaches
um so for those of you who don't know
coaches are
basically people from our community who
um i've trained personally to sort of
help people in our community
and attempt to duplicate dr k and
you know they're not they're not me but
they are actually pretty effective at
helping people so
part of the cool thing about our
coaching program is i don't know if you
guys are aware of this but i am a
harvard andy
so i'm a big believer in evidence-based
medicine and scientific methodology
um and so what we do is collect outcomes
so we sort of
measure the the effectiveness of our
coaches and they seem to be like pretty
good
um so the coaches are actually like
people from our community who are
passionate committed intelligent
trained for a while um i work with all
the coaches on an ongoing basis in terms
of supervising and continuing education
um so if they run into an issue with a
client like if you guys are stuck
somewhere in a session i'll sort of give
them advice or help them
figure out how to help you move forward
so our coaches
are really helped are there to help
people overcome issues like what we talk
about
in streams so help you understand
relationships help you understand
yourself better help you understand
procrastination things like that
it's not a medical treatment so the
coaches are not there to diagnose or
treat your depression or your anxiety
they can certainly help you kind of
think about those things and understand
those things so it's not like
you can't talk about being anxious but
it's really not a
diagnosis or treatment so if you guys
want to you can
uh join the wait list
yeah coaches get paid absolutely
who knows my notebook hey
oh good morning man
holy [ __ ] your voice critical
no you cut out what did you say i said
holy [ __ ] you're moist critical
oh yeah yeah do you want an autograph i
can like sign you no no no i
i didn't i didn't realize that was you
dude dude
i have actually recently discovered your
content
and i think it's awesome i appreciate
that man thank you
i didn't i didn't realize who you were
you're penguins
yeah yes sir yep yep yeah and you know i
know it's crazy because like
i swear to god so just so you remember
we were on that podcast together
and they introduced you as charlie right
so i was like okay there's a dude here
named charlie
and i was like damn that charlie dude
asks like really good questions
oh and is like like really like
thoughtful about his questions i was
like that's a cool guy
and then i didn't realize like and i was
like oh like it'd be cool if you know we
could hang out sometime
talk more because i really wanted i know
you'd ask questions but there are a lot
of people who are asking questions
about mental health um and i thought
that was like really cool
and then recently i saw a couple of your
videos about
um like leafy getting banned
and then something today about like uh
animal videos on youtube and i was like
hey it's that charlie guy
and then i saw that your name was
penguins
and and i was like okay so his i guess
his name is penguins
and then i i i [ __ ] you not man like let
me show you that anyway
i was just gonna dude you don't need to
prove it
i was taking a dump this morning and i
was watching your video about
um animal videos on youtube
um yeah that's a that's a scary rabbit
hole right there that'll ruin your
[ __ ] experience
so and i didn't realize you were you
were known as moist critical
so i apologize i have like i have this
terrible habit of just making
random [ __ ] names on every platform
it's it's awful but
it is what it is twitch is now asking me
to show the dump
can you prove that yeah did you watch it
yeah i it's too late for that
but it's it's funny i actually we talk a
lot about poop in my household
um because then in traditional indian
medicine a good sign of proper
digestion and diet is your poop and
so that sounds about right yeah that's
that's how they used to tell
whether uh you know whether your bowels
are functioning properly or and what not
but they used to use a a long time ago
the vikings used to use onion soup and
if they could smell it through your
wounds it meant you were gonna die
because the infection spread or
something right
fascinating i didn't know that but i
guess that makes sense
um interesting yeah
in ancient india speaking of you know
excretory material a good way that they
would test whether you had diabetes or
not is they would have you piss near an
ant mound
and if the ants came in and actually
like drank up the piss
it meant that you had sugar in your
urine and that got diabetes
that's huge yeah it was really great um
but theoretically people also maybe were
um just drinking urine which is
possible but i i like the ant test
better
yeah i think the ant test seems a little
more sound yeah
involves consuming less urine so we're
big fans of that
absolutely so uh and what do you want me
to call you do
like charlie or oh yeah yeah just
charlie you don't have to use any like
you know titles or anything man just
casual
um and and so tell me a little bit is
there something in particular i i
noticed that some uh my producers have
like put a list of questions but um
is there something that you want to talk
about today or something that can be
helpful
i'm game to just talk about whatever the
the way your producers talked about it
sounds like we just talked about what
was prevalent what's going on
okay kind of you know shoot the [ __ ]
there's no boys
okay that that sounds great to me so
just to clarify sometimes i have
personal conversations with people about
their life
and sometimes i talk with people about
stuff
do you have a preference of are we
shooting the [ __ ] about other things are
we talking about
you well your chat actually brought up
something interesting
we can talk about addiction that's kind
of become pretty prevalent in my
community recently because
okay i'm sure you would understand i've
been very big into buying yu-gi-oh boxes
and opening them on stream
okay some simpletons would refer to this
as a form of gambling
yeah it's because you know not too
different from like ea loot boxes you're
you're buying
a mystery i consider it mystery
investing in the yu-gi-oh cards
but there's a lot of people that think
that perhaps i have a susceptibility to
gambling
because of this what do you think
i think it's simply for the for the fun
of opening some yu-gi-oh cards the the
unexpected
thrill when we pull that starlight that
that rush of dopamine i think
all of that sounds like a gambling
addiction but i think what it actually
is gonna say
you get a pretty good case for an
addiction the thrill was that it's fun
yeah you know just that that fun with
the chat you know you get to shoot
you know shoot the [ __ ] in the chat make
some jokes get very disappointed when we
don't
pull a star light we get to feel the
highs and lows
and so maybe you know maybe i do have a
gambling addiction what do you think
i i wouldn't know i mean so far i know
all i know is that you're a guy who
opens yu-gi-oh cards
that's right so let me ask you do you uh
so my understanding is that yu-gi-oh is
a card game right
yeah yeah yeah um do you play the game
no no i just collect the cards okay
right so so so that's like a let's let's
think about a spectrum of addiction
so you've just shifted towards addiction
right if you don't
if you but at the same time people
collect all kinds of stuff so it doesn't
necessarily mean that you're addicted
like
people collect stamps right so that's
useless
and are yu-gi-oh cards useful if you
don't play a game with them
it's the implication i could battle if i
needed to i could make some monster
decks
and i think that's what makes me scary
to the community
that you could unleash your monster deck
of you go cards
on some unsuspecting new noob if you
if the if it if this reason arose
yeah you can't do that with stamps like
what are you going to do with stamps
just throw them at someone that's
worthless
you're going to send mail with them oh
yeah who cares right yeah like a ballot
or something like that a bill a letter
you know okay so i mean
so are you serious that your your
community kind of jokes about maybe
you having like an addiction to
yeah so i don't know if it's i know at
least a couple people earnestly think i
have an addiction
i i i don't but maybe like they grew up
in a household they're an environment
where they were around people that
maybe had like a real gambling addiction
you know maybe went to the casino more
times than they should
stuff like that and i i don't see the
same qualities here because i make it
pretty clear that it's just for like the
stream content and the fun
and highlight the videos for youtube
because i think a lot of the fun
comes from just like the unexpected
polls
and like the you know the jokes you can
make when a bad card comes up
just i think it's more about the journey
instead of the destination
i don't really think it's more like i'm
there to make money or i'm gonna be
really [ __ ] disappointed if i don't
get this one thing
and i don't think a lot of people can
recognize the difference between
just that kind of stuff for some content
versus a real
you know gambling problem or a real
addictive personality disorder
okay so is it okay if we talk about that
for a second
so maybe what we can do charlie and i'm
thrilled that we're having this
conversation because i would love to
have this conversation with you it's
like we can talk about what addiction is
right so what do you think makes an
addiction
how do we know whether someone is
addicted to something like
do i love do i just enjoy gambling or
am i addicted how do you what do you
think
so i guess uh in my voice correct in my
perspective
i think it becomes an addiction when it
becomes like the forefront of your
mind where you're thinking like i've
made this amount of money which means i
have this amount of gambling money to
set aside or
you know it becomes something that
you're constantly thinking about as a
means of
making money or as a way of staying
happy like i have to gamble
and this will make me happy but if i
don't get this i'm gonna be real sad
so i think it just more becomes to me an
addiction
when it's something you're constantly
harping on something that's always on
your
like on your mind you know what i mean
sure so there's a certain constancy of
mind i want to
tunnel down into actually i think a
couple of words which
i you didn't seem to emphasize but i
think are really important
you use the word have to right so you
said i
have to to make me happy to make money
whatever
so i think that there's a certain
compulsion which i think is actually
really important it's not so much about
what's on what's after the have to or
what's before the have to
it's the phrase have to there's a
certain amount of constancy
in your mind so like let's say that
and and so i'm just trying to think
about
situations where let's say i have to go
to work
and i'm constantly thinking about work
let's say i'm an investment banker
so this is common right so they they
spend a lot of time
going to work they feel like they have
to
um it occupies their mind they get to
sleep for like four hours a night
do we call that an addiction yeah
right i wouldn't call that an addiction
that would be more of a profession
that is that is actually what they do
for a living it is an entire career
built around it
i think i guess maybe for me the
distinction would be if it's not a
career
just this hobby that has become this
absolute
focal point of your life where it's
taking over other parts of it
okay taking over other parts i think
that's really important too
so we're we're getting to a really sort
of classical
medical definition of of addiction step
by step
taking over other parts of your life so
let's think about something
um else so let's say that i play league
of legends for 12 or 14
12 hours a day um i
am failing out of college
i'm master's league or master's level or
whatever
and i want to go pro what do we call
that
is that a career or an addiction what do
you think
that's tough to me that would be a
passion but i think it would be a little
misplaced
there has to be a balance i think
obsession in any of its forms such as
that like being obsessed with this drive
to make it to the next level in league
i don't think anything positive ever
comes from that
so for me i'd call that another
unhealthy addiction
to a certain degree but for that person
i guess
maybe passion would be more the right
term for them because they're clearly
very into the game they clearly see a
career and a future in it
but they're letting other parts of their
lives slip and fall down the [ __ ] for
it
which is what most programmers do right
before they make it pro they tend to
make these sacrifices
and they devote themselves fully to an
ideal so i'm hearing you kind of say
you'd put that ultimately in the passion
bucket
yeah more so than a like yeah
that'd definitely say passion okay um
so then let let me just kind of
highlight a couple of thoughts one is
you mentioned have to so i think
compulsion is a part of addiction right
sort of a sense of a lack of control
over your actions the second thing is a
certain constancy in your mind which you
sort of alluded to that it's at the
forefront of your mind is what you said
you're kind of thinking about it all the
time um i think that's also a feature of
addiction so a preoccupation with the
thing
so when if you think about if you talk
with alcoholics like a lot of them will
be thinking about
okay like if they're going on vacation
in their mind their mind will be sort of
figuring out okay when can i drink how
can i drink
um when am i going to get my next drink
and then i think a big part and this is
ultimately what sort of determines
addiction for me i think it's really
important is when you talked about
taking over
other parts of your life so i would call
that like sort of the medical term is
impairment of function
so if it interferes with your personal
professional academic
life or your physical or mental health
it's more likely to be an addiction
that sounds about right to me so i know
we don't diagnose or treat
things on stream you're aware of that
right
right so but now let's just think about
yu-gi-oh sort of as an academic example
would you say you hit those bullets so
do you feel like some degree of
compulsion to buy yu-gi-oh cards
that i will absolutely concede on that
it was like
even just four nights or two nights ago
whenever i opened the last
[ __ ] 34 boxes of rise of the duelist
that night i was like i need to get more
i need to find this card which doesn't
help my case
like i realize that makes me look like
an addict but sure in my
my defense like i've got to find that
[ __ ] card you know what i mean like
the stream's not complete without
finding it okay
so what i'm hearing is that you do sort
of have a sense of compulsion but it
also sounds like
in in your sense you're sort of making a
it sounds to me like it's almost like a
career kind of thing for you
where you've decided that the stream is
about
finding the card well yeah not the whole
stream i'm not like a yu-gi-oh streamer
these days or anything it's just a fun
little side quest we've been going on
here
i guess more so it's a compulsion with a
goal
it's like really aggressively chasing a
goal which is finding you know that
that white whale that starlight rare
we've been looking for
you know what i mean okay okay so
there's a particular goal do you find
that you're thinking about it relatively
constantly
no no no the only time i really think
about it is when the the boxes come at
the door and i'm like [ __ ] this is the
one and then when it's not i'm like [ __ ]
i'm thinking about it again
wait so i'm confused so you're thinking
about it when the box arrives at the
door and then when you
open the boxes and you're done then
you're thinking about it again
yeah those are really like the only two
times i'm ever really thinking about
getting more cards or thinking about
cards in general really
how many hours a day would you send you
you say you spend thinking about
yu-gi-oh
oh man it sounds it makes me sound like
a child
uh not much i'd say it's a the only
times i'm thinking about it
like i said is when i actually have the
boxes and i'm excited to open them on
stream
and when we just finished doing it and
we didn't and we didn't get what we were
going for
i'm sorry sorry for making it sound like
you were a child do you feel like a
child
oh you know what a little bit yeah you
know when i'm opening yugioh you know
makes me feel like a little boy again
you know it's
that's a feeling you can't emulate these
days it's one of those things you crack
open that nice pack you get that nice
beautiful aroma of some fresh cards you
know back like on christmas day 2006
it's lovely
it's a blast of nostalgia so yeah it
makes me feel like a kid a little bit
is that a bad thing not at all
okay so it sounds like you don't think
about it constantly
yeah and would you say that it impairs
your function or takes over other parts
of your life
no i i definitely wouldn't say so i
don't think i'm losing my life to
yu-gi-oh or anything i haven't been like
neglecting my
dogs or anything for yukio kart yeah i
mean so i think that's a pretty good
like you know i i i mean i've never
heard of a yu-gi-oh addiction before but
i think if you're
you know if people are are watching and
are kind of thinking a little bit about
is this an addiction i think those are
the important questions to ask
exactly and if the answer to all three
of those
or you know even two out of three is yes
like you may want to consider like
getting that checked out or getting
evaluated
or and i think really impairment to
function is the most important one
so if it's interfering with other parts
of your life then
i mean it sounds to me like you're
really interested in yugioh it sounds
like you have a nostalgic connection to
it
it sounds like it makes you feel like a
kid which is kind of fun
and alluring in a world where you know
everything is going to [ __ ]
um yeah and it's also like something
that you're doing with your audience
which sounds kind of like fun and
engaging
sort of like a bit of career a bit of
nostalgia
and at the end of the day is not causing
you to neglect your dogs
that's right i'm not hearing that you go
14 hours a day without eating or
drinking or using the bathroom because
you're opening yu-gi-oh cards
not yet but maybe i just haven't got
enough boxes who knows
yeah i guess one other thing to just
think a little bit about is whether from
a financial perspective you can afford
to
purchase and open all the yu-gi-oh packs
that you're buying
make sure to be very careful with that
kind of stuff i i very rarely spend
money so when i do i feel like real
guilty so i
make sure to look over it very
thoroughly why do you feel guilty when
you spend money
it's just how i grew up i never really
purchased anything
i just kind of always saved and hoarded
money
and either gave it away or you know
occasionally spent it on something every
now and then
so with the yu-gi-oh it's been very
different because the only thing i would
ever buy is movie tickets and food
and then i bought those yu-gi-oh boxes
for stream once and i was like damn this
was fun in the chat really enjoyed it
so then i spent more money on it and
like damn i'm kind of feeling a little
slimy about this
okay i don't know just to something uh
you know just something a little
different
charlie i noticed that you crossed your
arms are you feeling comfortable talking
about this stuff
yeah i just don't know what to do with
my hands because typically i have them
on the keyboard here
since i'm facing the camera i don't know
what to do with them no problem i i just
um do you mind if i ask a little bit
about you kind of feeling guilty about
spending money growing up and
boarding shows yeah it's an open book
help help me understand
um you know a little bit about how you
grew up
and and how you viewed spending money
uh so yeah my parents were they made
sure to instill in me the value of a
dollar
right uh i if i was begging for
something at toys r us
i wouldn't get it my dad and mom be like
nope
you can't have that you you know that's
that's that
we'll give you this toy but you can't
have two toys that kind of thing
so is the idea of not being spoiled and
i just kind of
made me feel as i grew up and started
having more money just more frugal with
it i didn't want to just
buy all of these materialistic things
because i just didn't need them you know
what i mean it was just one of those
things where i don't need it i'll save
this money
use it for something better as opposed
to something
you know just for me so
the way i view money is like making fun
content out of it spending money for
content is always when i'm happiest when
it comes to money
as opposed to buying something like a
yugioh box that i open in private while
i'm scratching at my neck having an
episode or something you know what i
mean
okay what do you mean by having an
episode was that a joke
oh yeah no i'm just kidding that
happened okay hold on a second
i thought it was a joke i was like i was
like i was envisioning like an episode
of like yu-gi-oh withdrawal where you're
like
feral in the closet like opening up
packs and kind of scratching yourself
sort of thing okay i said just i thought
that was
a funny image just kidding um
yeah so that's kind of interesting um
and and do you have a sense of why your
parents felt it was so important to
instill in you the value of a dollar
uh yeah i grew up in an area that had a
lot of spoiled kids like a lot of real
[ __ ] you know parents that would
just ignore them and give their kids
whatever they want it's not too
different from parents these days
just give their kids an ipad and tell
them to go do whatever so
my parents didn't like that and they
wanted to make sure i didn't turn out to
be one of those spoiled kids that just
had everything handed to them and just
you know
live life with this silver spoon where
everything they wanted they got
you know what i mean and i think that
was just a really valuable lesson
because i've
i've definitely i feel like it's a lot
better to spend
my money on things that other people can
enjoy like you know fun content or stuff
like that
or giving it to people that could use it
more use it
for something in their life you know
what i mean sure so so just for me
versus something better
yeah and do you remember how you felt as
a kid when your parents
you know sort of said like hey i mean
what was it like to grow up surrounded
by
kids who got two toys instead of one and
you only getting one toy
it never really bothered me i never
really had too much of a problem with it
i
from a young age i was like you know
what that's totally fine i can
understand why my parents are
wanting me to learn this my parents i
think have been just incredible role
models they
it always treated everyone with so much
respect and did everything they could
for
everyone around them and i always
recognized that as a really good thing
so the fact that they were telling me
look it's better if you just
learn that you can't always have
everything you want at a young age
and you'll benefit from it so it never
really bothered me that you know my
friends would have all this crazy [ __ ]
it wasn't really a big deal to me okay
because i realized i didn't need it you
know what i mean
okay um that's really impressive man so
it sounds like
not only did they sort of uh teach you
the value of a dollar but i'm also
hearing that they spent the time and
energy
to try to explain to you what they were
doing and why they were doing it
so they they would explain everything to
me man i don't know if you remember this
but there was a nascar
racer called dale earnhardt yeah and my
my
parents loved nascar one of their
biggest weaknesses i don't know why they
like nascar but they loved it and i was
watching nascar
and that accident happened where he
crashed into the wall and died
and my parents immediately like without
missing a beat it's like they had
[ __ ] scripted his death they're like
charlie this is death
and you need to understand what this
means like i was always be getting
lessons and
i think that that really just kind of
helped me understand things at a younger
age
as opposed to like you know having to
learn it the harder way
or you know later on what's the harder
way
yeah i said as far as death i don't know
but as for not getting everything you
want
you know realizing that you can't always
have everything
you know what i think is the harder way
by yourself because what i'm merely
hearing from you is that
you know what you you learned a lot of
things not alone
like you had parents who took the time
to really try to explain to you things
help you understand things
it's interesting i think it makes a lot
of sense because you seem to me to be
like i mentioned you at the beginning
when i was fanboying a little bit
um that you know i think you ask really
good questions and you're an insightful
dude
and it's kind of interesting to to see
that from a young age your parents
taught you how to think or encourage you
to think
or find reasons or try to understand
things
yeah well i appreciate that man yeah i
really can't thank my parents enough for
the upbringing i think the
a lot of the the reason that i am the
way i am today is because of everything
they taught me
sure i really appreciate that if you're
in the chat mom and dad keep up the
great work
love you um so
so charlie if i can just kind of point
something out to you that i think is a
little bit strange so
i think you know you kind of say i don't
need it
which sort of makes sense and but that
seems to me like a little bit
different or maybe related to feeling
guilty when you do
indulge what do you think about that
yeah i guess that might be a little part
of it because at the end of the day i
don't need
yu-gi-oh cards right like my stream's
not gonna you know go to the [ __ ] if
i'm not opening yu-gi-oh cards like some
kind of crazy feral animal
it's not something i need and when i buy
it it does make me feel a little guilty
because again
it is big purchases right like 34 boxes
of yu-gi-oh cards that was like
seventeen hundred dollars like that's
that's not like a small purchase it's
something i feel guilty about
spending that much on something like
that which is
again just this this thing just for some
fun on the stream
and no i think the fact yeah i just
think the fact that i don't need it and
you know it just makes me feel a little
slimy
yeah so so oddly enough i think the fact
that you do it for a stream
is what makes it okay for you so i think
stream is a good reason that protects
you from the guilt
because you strike me as someone who
wouldn't buy 34 boxes of yu-gi-oh cards
unless you had
a quote-unquote good reason right
and i i think now i'm gonna say
something a little bit provocative okay
so i think the interesting thing that
i'm hearing from you is a good reason as
anything except for yourself
that's fair i mean that's that's
probably fair yeah
what do you think about that ah
i think there's a lot of truth to it the
more i think about it the the more i
realize i don't buy anything really for
myself all my purchases are either food
for me and my girlfriend or movie
tickets for me and my girlfriend
i guess like the last thing i bought
simply for me to enjoy was a dance dance
revolution machine
and now that i'm talking about this out
loud it seems like everything i buy is
something that a nine-year-old would
think is cool
but uh yeah i don't really buy a whole
lot solely for me to enjoy
but that's because i like to share
everything with everybody like if i have
something i put it on stream or i make a
youtube video out of it
yeah so once again everything that you
have is for other people
yeah i guess so huh right
yeah and not to be a little bit um
further provocative but like let's just
think it's just
i'm thinking about some of my
supervisors who would just really love
to make some kind of bizarre conclusion
like
you know it sounds like your parents
taught you about very mature things at a
very young age
that you weren't able to indulge in
getting two toys and sort of live
life freely and openly which is why as
an adult you're chasing the feelings of
a child
i'm not chasing any children don't you
put those words feelings feelings
right so so you you kind of keep
commenting that
it makes me sound like i'm a kid and so
so some of my
like analytic supervisors would be like
oh he is trying to rediscover his
childhood in adulthood because he was
robbed of it
because his parents taught him about
death at a young age instead of letting
him indulge
and be a child can you believe that
unbelievable
unbelievable what do you think about
that i
i definitely wouldn't agree with that i
don't think i'm trying to chase the
feeling of anything i missed as a kid i
feel like i had a great childhood
yeah and it's not like i was you know in
the streets selling lemonade
you know it's a war-torn area for money
so i could buy something for myself
like my parents obviously got me things
but it was this idea of there's no need
to have
everything you always want at every
given moment
yeah of course definitely just the
balancing act of making sure i wasn't
spoiled
but also making sure that i wasn't you
know going hungry and
not having things to have fun with yeah
i mean because because like like you
said you know just to be clear
we're not talking about zero toys versus
two toys we're talking about one toy
so you go to toys r us and you get one
toy
you know and so sort of makes sense
um at the same time i am a little bit
you know i do wonder a little bit
charlie about sort of putting yourself
last or not being able to put yourself
first
and how you feel about that um
i never really look at it that way
because in general not my happiest when
i'm making
like cool content or i'm making bigger
projects like
the music video i did earlier this year
that was like the biggest undertaking
i've done it was a year-long
project a full animation and it was
expensive but i liked it doing it
because i like
putting that kind of stuff out there and
i would say like that's
for me as well as for sharing it with
other people i would say making
something like that was putting myself
first but it's also something that i got
to share with everybody
which is what i really enjoy yeah so i
don't i really don't view it as a like
me putting myself
last where you know i'm i you know not
spending anything on myself making sure
that i'm taken care of or anything like
that
it's just more so i enjoy doing things
that i can share with everybody else
what do you enjoy about that
all right i was wondering what that was
my doorbell doesn't work so it just it
just says install cover there's someone
at the door
um what was the question sorry i just
uh i forgot um
yeah i forgot give me a second all right
no worries
oh yeah what what do you enjoy about
sharing things with other people
um i don't know just always been a
really fulfilling thing i've just always
enjoyed
making things for the fun of making them
and then putting them out there for the
world to enjoy or [ __ ] on really
you don't have to love everything i do i
don't expect everyone to love everything
i do like i
i don't do it for that kind of that kind
of reason it's just i have a lot of fun
doing it
and since i had fun hopefully other
people have fun watching it or
interacting with it in some way and i
just really enjoy that
just being able to you know help
entertain somebody maybe
what is what is that feeling when you
keep on using the word enjoy what what
do you feel when
someone when you share something with
someone and they're able to appreciate
it
um
jubilation i'll use a hard word there i
i'd say like i
really feel great when someone's like
look charlie that video
was really [ __ ] cool skynet i'd never
even thought about robots being powered
by semen that was
wild that makes me feel like really good
oh yes the the music videos about robots
powered by semen
it's you have to read them yeah like
it's
s e a m e n or
i'll break down the storyline as a
little lore recap in skynet
it's basically terminator if the
machines were powered by
nut as opposed to technology electricity
yeah it's it's deep there's there's a
lot of moving parts to that i
don't even want to get into it the fan
isn't wild is something that
you made or is something okay
yeah so uh i have a band with a buddy of
mine named troy and we made this song
that's all about that
and then we hired an animation studio to
animate all of it
and that was by far the biggest project
i've done and putting that out there and
seeing people
really enjoy it or you know really
relate to it in some strange ways just
really cool
it just made me feel very happy charlie
it sounds like the world is lucky to
have you
that was sweet thanks man i'm
what are you right
you're just being sweet man i don't know
it was just very nice
i wasn't trying to be nice
can i explain myself a little bit i'm
curious how how it sounded when
how you felt when i said that all right
sure man
well let me just because like look so
you're you're like one of these content
creators right
and and it sounds like i imagine you
make a fair amount of money
and it sounds like what you really try
to do is you strike like a really good
balance of
being sort of authentic and not catering
to the masses or giving them the kind of
content that they want but really that
your goal is to
do something that you find like
interesting and fulfilling and
i think you use a really interesting
word which is subtle and has a lot of
connotation which is share
so you share something without
expectation
right you give it to people and you say
hey i hope you enjoy this i enjoyed it
you don't say i need you to enjoy it
which is what happens with a lot of
content creators
you know i want you to enjoy it how can
i make something so that you enjoy it
the most
that's not what i'm hearing from you
what i'm hearing is that
you know you have some resources and you
invest those resources to a certain
degree
in personal satisfaction but also that
like you really try to align personal
satisfaction with things that other
people can make
the world a slightly brighter place or
make someone stay better
man that was yeah that i think you hit
the nail on the head man i really
appreciate that
it means a lot to even like hear someone
explain it that way because that's
definitely how i feel like i don't make
these things trying to cater to some
kind of you know
popular take or popular opinion like you
know no one's talking about
nut-powered machines you know it's just
i enjoyed it
i like putting it out there and it
always means a lot when people like it
and if they don't that's fine too like
maybe they could make fun of it and they
could have fun that way really
it's just you know just the the cycle of
how i like to
to create things and just the way i kind
of live my life thinking of
well here's something i could do that
maybe other people would enjoy yeah
and so what what was it like to hear me
say that
ah man it felt like five different
angels all tickling my nut sack like it
was just soothing like you just
made me feel so at ease and like
fulfilled it was
wonderful okay
do do you feel i mean hey
i don't put this back is that an unusual
feeling
angel's tickling your nut sack well it's
you know it doesn't happen as often as
i'd like
you know what i mean but it's just a
nice feeling i don't know man
i've always watched it like i watch your
show obviously and i always appreciate
what you're able to do for the community
around here not just the people you
bring on stream but also the chat as
well i think you do a lot of good work
even making people in the chat
feel like they're learning something
about themselves and feeling good about
themselves so
i mean i'll make a bold claim here i
think you're tickling a lot of nut sacks
and making people feel
a lot better yeah that's that's
generally speaking what my fbi file is
filled with
yes
they call me aka nut sacticler
oh i believe it man you're notorious out
here
um yeah so
charlie i i think uh you know i wasn't
trying to tickle the nut sack but i
think you genuinely offered um
you know something that i heard which is
that i think you do kind of go
out of your way really i think that's
actually what's pretty cool about it is
that you don't go out of your way to
make people feel better what i really
hear you doing is
offering the most authentic parts of
yourself with the hope that other people
can benefit from them
and there's just something really like
pure about that and i just wanted to
acknowledge it
because i think it's cool man well thank
you man i'm glad you i'm glad you think
it's cool
it really does mean a lot to me and
yeah so i i i do i do think there's
something here charlie which i think
not necessarily that we need to explore
further but sometimes when people you
said something like
uh you know you do it you do some things
just for yourself
as opposed to like having a better
reason to do them
um and and i i i know we
i sort of mentioned that you kind of put
other people ahead of yourself which i
think is a really noble and awesome
thing i think it's part of what
results in what we just talked about
right that you really do authentically
try to create things kind of for
yourself but then do your best
to try to share them with other people
i do wonder a little bit um about
can i just think for a second and try to
figure out how to say this hey by all
means man
so sometimes people are taught
that other people are more important
than they are
and there's a very subtle so if you put
someone ahead of yourself
there can be a couple of reasons for
that
one is that you just value other people
right so like
the person besides you can have a lot of
value
the other reason that you can put people
ahead of yourself is that you can value
yourself
very low does that make sense it's kind
of like a comparison
no i totally i'm not saying that you
value yourself
lowly but i can envision a world in
which a kid is surrounded by
a bunch of rich kids um and
i'm not saying this is you by the way
i'm just sort of sketching this out okay
and it's
your your you have to tell me whether
this fits or doesn't fit or whether you
want to explore it further or not
i'm envisioning if you take a hundred
kids that are surrounded by
a hundred kids with lots of toys
and they're the one that doesn't get as
many toys
that out of those hundred kids some of
them will think
or feel like they are worth less than
their peers
does that make sense yeah i could
definitely envision that too but for me
personally i don't think it goes like
that deep when it comes to putting other
people ahead of myself
i wouldn't say i value those other
people more than i value myself
i'd still say at the end of the day i
care more about myself
than somebody that i have never met
before
and what's going on there i i just
really like to be able to
maybe produce something for them that
they can enjoy as well
it's not because i'm thinking like you
know what they deserve
something here and i don't deserve any
of this i don't think i've ever really
felt that way
as far as like uh you know that kind of
feeling maybe in high school i felt like
really low
on myself and maybe put others far
higher than me
but sure i've grown a lot since then in
high school i mean that's just rough for
everyone you know i'd like [ __ ]
pimply face i took accutane twice
i was beating my dick every night it was
miserable right like it's a high school
experience
but since then i don't think i've ever
really had like this really low
self-image or self-worth or anything
like that where
everyone around me is more important and
i'm trash
yeah yeah so i'm not getting that sense
from you i i'm getting a sense that
you're
confident you recognize your own worth
and at the same time
you sort of acknowledge in a simple sort
of like human way that
other people are super important to and
that the really cool thing is that it
seems like you can hit both of those
you know birds with one stone in terms
of you can do something for yourself
and do something for other people and
that the two aren't actually like
one doesn't have to come at the cost of
the other that's what i think is
actually really cool about a lot of what
you spend your time on
is that sure you can enjoy opening
yu-gi-oh cards but your stream enjoys it
too
right and it's it's fun for all of you
guys together
yeah there's some real enablers in there
though i'll tell you what they'll tell
me i don't have enough
cards and i feel like i have to [ __ ]
prove them wrong about to flip my desk
over and just order 34 more
how many how many packs are in a box
24 packs in a box wow
and why do you order 34 boxes
why 34. well you see it's simple
mathematics the more boxes the more
chances of pulling that one starlight
we've been hunting for
but why not 36 or 40 or 42 why
jesus you're sounding like my chat
you're going to make me order 100 boxes
by the end of this stream
[Music]
that's what the seller had i just
ordered out a full seller oh
got it okay yes you know this is gonna
take a a kind of a a dark turn but
sometimes when i deal with people who
have had a suicide attempt with taking
too many pills
they'll say like i took 27 pills and
then i'll be like
why 27 like why not 24 or 30.
and and often the the common answer is
because that's
everything that was in the bottle
um so it sounds like you know they were
emptying out their supply too
which is a little bit morbid but that's
i like to think that buying out the
yugioh boxes wouldn't be as
hardcore as swallowing a bottle of pills
but maybe i just haven't bought enough
boxes yet
you drown in the youtube cards or
something so
charlie i do wonder a little bit about
you know why you
feel guilty right where does that mean
the wrong word maybe it's just uh maybe
that you know kind of little
icky feeling you get sometimes where you
did something and it's like well
yeah but i could have done this this
would have probably
been a better use of this time or this
resource
maybe guilty's just a little too hard of
a word for what i feel because it's not
like i'm
waking up in a cold sweat like charlie
you have sinned and now we can't sleep
because of it
it's just when i make that decision it's
like ah that's you know
that's a little that's a little icky
right what's icky
[Music]
it's just like that that nagging
sensation where
i'm trying to think of a good way of
putting it because it's not like
terrible i don't feel
absolutely destroyed if i buy yu-gi-oh
boxes
i'm not inconsolable i'm not in the
corner crying about it it's just like
there's other people that want to buy
these things and i just bought this
entire seller's supply for the sake of
opening it on stream
did i need to buy all of them no
probably not this stream probably would
have been just as fun with
half of those boxes okay
so just a little bit like you know
didn't need to do that i went a little
hard there and now i feel a little gross
for doing that because now maybe
somebody
that wanted those or maybe someone's
parents were going to order from that
seller for their kid or something
now they can't because well now the
grease king's sitting on all 34 boxes
see so so it sounds like once again in
the in the ickiness what we're thinking
about is
in a weird way your mind is kind of
thinking about the possibility that
through your indulgence you've deprived
someone else of
an opportunity that's definitely fair
because there's there's only so many
boxes right and i just took a huge
chunk of them off the market so for the
fans of the game that actually play the
game and keep in mind i don't actually
go out and battle they can't get those
cards now now i have them
and i will not sell them by the way you
[ __ ] they're mine
yeah so i once again i'm noticing a
slight tension in terms of like the way
that your mind
measures you against others right that
that doing something
indulgence towards yourself and i'm not
saying it's big or bad or like this is a
smoking gun or anything but i think
the interesting thing is as we develop
as human beings
the problems with our mind become more
and more sudden
they become smaller and and there's
still sort of this tension where if i
get something someone else
doesn't it's a tiny tiny one tiny tiny
none
one and and you know small one
nano nano babu means nano means small
babu means baby and it's something that
my kids say from time to time
a tiny tiny baby so my younger kid talks
about
tiny tiny baby canora viruses which is
why we can't go to the playground
oh that's a good way of putting it yeah
um but you know i i'd encourage you
charlie to just keep
track of that and just notice you know
that
in your mind for some reason when you
buy something your mind
has a script that turns on which starts
thinking about
how someone else could be deprived by
what you've done
whereas i doubt i mean when you say
you've you know bought out a significant
share of the supply of yugioh boxes i
doubt that well at least on one website
i can tell you you could probably find
like a measurable
graph somewhere that shows before i
started streaming it and then after for
rise of the duelist
okay i think in total we've had like
[ __ ] 60 boxes worth of that that
we've opened on stream
i wouldn't be surprised if konami just
stops giving it to vendors and starts
sending it right to me or something
to make more money that way um
do you see what i'm saying though about
just sort of the automaticity of your
thought process in terms of like
doing something maybe indulging because
you're you're not
you know that's a sort of a situation
where there's one toy there's two toys
there's no toys and then you're like
going into toys r us and
you have the perception that you're kind
of buying out like an entire shelf of
something
and then your mind sort of thing starts
thinking about other people because you
do seem like you care about other people
and and there's just this little script
i'd encourage you to just keep an eye on
that
um there may be something more to that
can i tell you
i'll go into a little bit more detail
apologies if i'm kind of losing you am i
losing you
no absolutely not man absolutely so wild
so
the the other just thought that i have
is that i think
teaching indulgence to your kids is also
pretty important i don't know if you're
thinking about having kids you're
planning on having kids or want kids or
whatever
but you know i think teaching temperance
and restriction to your kids is
important but also
that sometimes they do get to come first
is like something that
i try to teach my kids is that sometimes
they get to come first and i'm wondering
you know i think part of what how can i
say this
i think you deserve more than you give
yourself charlie
hmm that's sweet i think
yeah i mean i from everything i said i
totally get where you'd come from here
but
i don't think that i deprive myself of
anything for the sake of
giving someone else anything i still
think you know if there is something
that i want and it is something just for
me i don't really like hesitate to get
it i don't think there's really been too
many cases of where like
you know i felt so guilty for giving
myself something that someone else might
not have it
i don't think i've really suffered too
much from that and even as a kid it's
not like i felt that way either
but from everything i've said i could
totally get why maybe you'd feel that
way i just don't
see it personally yeah maybe i'm a
little biased in it maybe my girlfriend
would feel differently where she's like
charlie you know you never really
do this for yourself but for me i just
don't get that feeling
yeah so charlie i'm not so let me be a
little bit even clearer so what i'm
talking about is that i think you give
yourself 99
of what you deserve what i'm talking
about is a one percent here
and the reason that i think that's
important has nothing to do with like
you depriving yourself
it actually has to do it i realize i'm
sort of stepping outside of my bounds
here but
i think it actually has to do with your
spiritual growth
so i i think that being able to
acknowledge and give yourself like
to be free from those thoughts those
automatic thoughts that you're depriving
someone
i think is actually like a step forward
for you
and that doesn't have to do with
actually buying more yu-gi-oh cards or
buying less yu-gi-oh cards
i'm not actually talking i'm not saying
that you should
give yourself more than you do what i'm
talking about is your sense of deserving
right that you should be comfortable and
acknowledge that
it's okay for you to indulge in that
other people aren't
that's what i'm talking about something
that's very very subtle i don't think
it's like an issue
i don't think it impairs your function i
don't think it's a problem
does that make sense it's just the
barrier of where you are
based on our conversation no i totally
get where you're coming from yeah that
makes sense
um yeah what do you how are we doing is
this conversation okay to you
yeah absolutely man i always enjoy these
things like i said i watch your show i
always like to hear these conversations
so to take part in one i mean i think
that's great
yeah uh i find myself being curious
about your girlfriend but also like
have a bunch of questions about um
i don't know how comfortable
but then they're also kind of questions
about like community and
and thinking about like different kinds
of community
um thinking about like hate and toxicity
um what do you think would be a better
use of our time
really i'm um this is your ship you're
one i'm willing to go wherever you want
to steer us i'm fine to talk about
any of that if you want to talk about
the toxic communities or something i
mean that's been pretty prevalent these
days so
i'm fine with whatever okay i mean
uh i need some kind of direction
all right then uh i think it'd be
beneficial if we talked about toxic
communities then i think that's a
something that's big right now something
that's been big for a little while that
why not talk about it absolutely so uh
can you tell me a little bit about
toxic communities and when you say it's
been big for a while what do you mean by
that
okay so for uh we'll just use the the
one everyone targets and i'm no
exception i also talk about it live
stream fails i know a lot of people
like to target them for everything wrong
with their stream and everything wrong
with
anything that when it comes to twitch in
particular and i've definitely made that
mistake before too where it's like
livestream fails has done this this and
this to these people
and i just think that's probably the
wrong approach to take it's a
community full of a bunch of different
people and i don't really think it's as
toxic as a lot of people have made it
out to be
myself included it's just there's a very
vocal minority of people that hijack
something like that it's the same thing
with chats like i don't think xqc's chat
is the most
toxic annoying place in the world it's
just there are some people
that take over and make that become the
public perception
what would your thoughts be on that do
you really think that there is this
overwhelmingly
large number of people that say these
bad things or feel this terrible way
about people
or is it just a small group that make it
seem that way
i think both are true so let me start by
saying i didn't realize that live stream
fails had a
reputation for uh harboring toxicity i
mean so when i browse lsf i tend to find
it
somewhat enjoyable and i thought
everyone sort of knew that the point of
lsf is that you take things out of
context
yeah well especially with yeah
especially with your show that's become
like a real big meme there is to take
some clips out yeah
so so so i mean i i actually i mean i
think it's
kind of funny i don't i don't feel like
personally lsf or the people on lsf
breed negativity i try to steer clear of
my clips but i think it's just
it's it's just funny right it's like
it's clips
first of all so you're not getting
really a fair representation it's like
it's like a meme generator
and meme generators i don't think are
going to be able to capture the truth
um i do know that lsf has been i think a
lot more mindful recently that
despite you know when you generate memes
sometimes you can go a little bit too
far
and that and and so it seems to me like
the the community has been like the lsf
modding community
um you know i think has been making a
lot of active changes which sound
awesome to me in terms of
uh i don't know like all the details but
i i think they're becoming more mindful
of what they create and what kind of
effects that they have and they've been
thinking about it more which seems to be
like a step in the right direction
um so that's what i'd say about lsf but
i'm relatively new to twitch and also
relatively new to lsf so i don't know if
they've been worse in the past or
you know what's been going on yeah i
think the reputation
i'm not like a frequent browser i'm only
an occasional one i don't know what new
modding things are implemented but i
think the reason why lsf gets that
reputation is because for a long time i
don't know if this is still the case but
the most popular posts were like
here's salinity being [ __ ] terrible
and then here's a clip of valenti from a
year ago still being terrible and you'll
have all these like old clips piled on
top of
one another targeting one person in
particular showing their worst moments
and then everyone in the comments is dog
piling it
and then maybe like five months down the
line the perception changes and then
everyone acts like
well this is terrible you know no one
should have ever said these things we
never did this
and then i wish people would stop
generalizing lsf based on its top posts
and stuff like that so they get this
reputation for
being toxic and then pretending they
weren't
and then they use that same line where
it's like it's a 900 000 person
community
you can't target us based on a couple
people even though it's their top post
which means it's most representative of
what people wanted
what people were vibing with so i do
think that that
uh so going to like you know the vocal
minority i think that
it's very common that a community can be
influenced by a vocal minority like in
chat you'll get a couple of real trolls
who
you know speak more so i think that
generally speaking majorities tend to be
silent
um and that minorities can oftentimes be
vocal
and so that is true but i i do think
just like you said though charlie like i
think that
we can't hide behind that anymore
because of things like when you upvote
right like when when a when a post makes
it to the top of live stream fails
that's not a vocal minority that's the
silent majority that is the action of
the silent majority
and so when that gets upvoted that
actually is representative of your
community
um and i i think especially with some of
these other you know
toxic communities which i've recently
learned about right so they're like i
recently discovered that they're like
um just kind of a funny meme story about
this but like someone mentioned keemstar
and i didn't know that that was a person
when i first heard it
like i thought because you know it's
like a term right so like like if you
say sky nut for example like i'm
assuming that that's just something that
someone made up
right like it's not like a per because
like you just can't [ __ ] tell
like is moist critical a person or like
it's just confusing
anyway so i think that there are like
communities right where
where people create content that is
geared towards attacking other people
and to be fair those communities are
gigantic
and they get tons of viewership which
says to me that this is not an
issue of a vocal minority that there is
actually a silent majority of people
there
and oddly enough you know i know this is
going to sound weird i think we have to
be careful about judging them because i
still don't know
why these people upvote what they do
so so there's just sort of this sense
that we call all of these people toxic
and i'm sure that that's fair but you
know i tend to
do my best to not
judge an entire person based on a
particular action
so i'm sure there are toxic people out
there but if you have
you know like a like an attack video
youtube or whatever that has like five
million subscribers like that's not
a vocal minority right that that
person's channel is successful because
there's actually a lot of people out
there who are experiencing
a lot of something and i personally am
curious like
what they're experiencing like i don't
know why these people
upvote this stuff
yeah i guess to bring it back into terms
with livestream fails i
i guess it would more be the sense of
community right that would be my take
where everyone's mad at this person so
maybe somebody feels like well if
they're mad
there's a reason for it i should be mad
even if maybe they don't feel that
strongly they'll still chime and be like
yo
i don't like this yuck what the [ __ ] is
that oh jesus upvote you know
i don't really think it's a whole bunch
of people that genuinely hate the person
or anything
like that they probably don't even know
who it is they just see that this is
popular
i'm in this community pretty often which
means i should feel the same way so i'm
going to
you know take on the same mindset you
know what i mean i don't think it's
necessarily always malicious where this
person is trying to you know
ruin the person that's being targeted
they just feel like they're missing out
by not
being in the same line as everyone else
in the community that they frequent
i've i'm quite skeptical of that so let
me ask you this charlie when you upvote
something on reddit
what's in your mind when you upvote it
well this is you're not going to believe
this but i've never
upvoted anything on reddit in my life
okay so
that actually makes a lot of sense to me
because i i think that your hypothesis
about what is in someone's mind
i wouldn't agree with that they're doing
it just because other people are doing
it
yeah that's totally fair maybe i'm just
out right wrong because i don't know
like maybe they are really feeling this
yeah so so as someone who upvotes a lot
on reddit and comments
rarely i upvote things that resonate
with me in some way
that i agree with and i downvote things
that i don't agree with
and don't resonate with the exception
being
i can resonate with something that i
disagree with if the guise
of the
given the premise of the post so for
example sometimes there are posts that
are
criticizing me that'll actually upvote
because i think they bring up good
criticisms
so i can disagree with what they're
saying but i i resonate with the post in
some way and i think generally speaking
when you think about upvote and downvote
i never think about oh my god a bunch of
people are upvoting this
i better upvote it too i've never
experienced that now that could be
happening subconsciously
but usually i tend to upvote things that
i find
like resonate with me in some way if i
find it funny i'm gonna upvote it i
don't care that other people find it
funny
i think it it it connects with you and
that's what happens with social media
and like likes and dislikes is
sure i'm sure there's a peer pressure
element to it but i think the
interesting thing about social media is
that
they've given us a chance like what
rises to the top
certainly has issues of popularity but i
think that there's like some content
that people
resonate with right like let's think
about yugioh like some there's something
that when people watch you open yu-gi-oh
facts something about them like when
they see your nostalgia
when they see your excitement your hope
it resonates with them
and it's like man i remember opening
yu-gi-oh packs hell yeah i'll put this
[ __ ]
you know like let's see if he does it
cause i i know what
starlight rare starlight something
what's that yeah
what's it called starlight starlight
rare starlight rare
so like a starlight like they remember
hunting for the starlight rare
and so it connects with them and i i
think the internet is
is about actually i know this sounds
bizarre but i think it's actually about
connection i think what social media
twitch
i mean twitch is about connection it's
about connecting with the person that
you're watching the person that you're
watching resonating with you
if we think about our stream that's also
about connection
so we've grown because the people who
come on here say and do things that
people
feel connected to
yeah i can totally agree with that so i
guess mainly the reason why i was
feeling that way when it comes to
something like lsf and things rising to
the top and maybe not being
you know maliciously upvoting something
bad is because you can see it a lot in a
chat right where if somebody posts
some kind of copy pasta or you know some
assy art picture of titties or the hydra
dick
you'll immediately see you haven't seen
the
well i don't even want to attempt it
because i hate that kind of [ __ ] i don't
like spam but
when somebody does like a copy pasta or
a hydro dick or three titty
spam thing you'll see 50 people
immediately
start posting the same thing so i would
i would imagine that that extends to
other platforms so when you see
something on reddit where it rises
pretty quickly
you'll typically would at least in my
perspective you'd see other people just
hop on it like well they're doing it i'm
going to do it i'll upload this as well
and i don't necessarily care too much
about what this person did
but everyone else is doing it so i'm
probably just gonna upload it too
yeah so i think there's certainly a mob
mentality
yeah but but i don't think the mob
mentality is the same as peer pressure i
think it's like more
instinctual right so like reddit becomes
like a school of fish
that certainly like one fish freaks out
and goes this way and then they're like
one bird
you know if you see a bunch of birds
roosting and then one bird jumps out and
starts flying all the other birds jump
out and start flying
so certainly is i think a group think
aspect to it but i i think by the way is
it a
hydro dick or hydra dick hydra
and i want to apologize to your mods i
just made their job so much [ __ ]
harder by even mentioning that sorry
hydra dick yeah like oh like the greek
monster yeah it's like just a bunch of
bunch of dicks
yeah okay i mean
they're dicks in all shapes and sizes on
the internet
you'd be surprised um anyway
yeah so so i i do think though that
that i'm not so sure that it's a vocal
minority
charlie because i think that you know
you do have entire communities that are
very successful
that are built on attacking other people
what do you think about that you i mean
that definitely exists i mean
yeah if you can see that especially
there's entire channels based around it
on youtube i mean
for better for worse sometimes it's
legitimate criticism or sometimes it's
pointing out something someone did to
make jokes about it and just have fun
about it i think there's definitely
different
levels of it different tiers where
there's someone that's hateful
about it like they hate this person and
they're just gonna keep
insulting them maybe there's nothing
constructive and maybe there's nothing
entertaining about it
and i think that's the worst level where
it's there for hate to fuel this hate
machine where
i think in today's landscape of social
media people like to be angry more than
they like to be happy
i think in general scheme of things
people like to feel like there's a
common enemy that they can all unite
against and hate against
and channels that simply aim to fuel
that to give them someone to hate
without anything constructive or
entertaining
i think that's probably the worst level
of it i don't necessarily feel that
about live stream fails in particular i
feel that's more
here's just some drama we can all rally
behind and maybe just mindlessly upvote
but i definitely think on other
platforms and on youtube there's
definitely channels that do that but
on twitch i don't see too much of just
hate for the sake of hate i
i feel it's more just here's drama let's
just treat it like a you know
reality tv show okay so can you tell me
a little bit about like how
youtube and twitch and their communities
and the level of toxicity is different
yeah so i i actually think leafy made a
good point with this
when before he got banned the on twitch
everyone's really kind of looking out
for each streamer
you know if a streamer is being attacked
nine times out of ten you'll see other
streamers come to their aid
on youtube if someone's being attacked
it's the trendy thing to immediately hop
on and attack that person as well
i mean you saw it with james charles you
saw it with pretty much everyone and i'm
guilty with the james charles thing in
particular
but in youtube it's people eating each
other right
and i'm not saying guilty with the james
charles thing like i did anything bad i
just meant like
i talked about it but on youtube when
someone's james charles
he's a big makeup youtuber he had like a
big scandal and stuff
and everyone was talking about it but it
turned out it's all just a bunch of
[ __ ] but
on youtube it's it's best for a lot of
these channels to immediately hop
on when someone's getting attacked when
they're vulnerable because that's where
all the views are for those people
like you saw it with pokeman every
youtuber was making five videos about
pokeman because leafy made a video about
pokemane
that's how it's treated there that's the
normal culture of youtube
on twitch if that happens from what i've
seen for my two years on here
when someone's getting attacked like
that other streamers aren't super quick
to immediately start attacking that
person
they'll typically wait a lot of times
they'll defend the streamer
it's it's a very different perspective a
very different approach
when someone's getting attacked on the
platforms youtube it'll be like a dog
pile like everyone's trying to
desperately recover
recover a fumble in football but on
twitch it's people feel more connected
as like a community
that's the biggest difference has that
affected you how long have you been on
youtube
14 years okay so like like have you
have have the platform sort of affected
you differently
no i wouldn't say so i not not me
personally but just i can definitely see
the differences
it's not something that i've been uh
victim to or something that i've really
been like in the [ __ ] mix of or
anything but it's something since i've
been on both
ever since i've been on that for so long
and then coming over here i can
immediately recognize
the big difference between the two when
it comes to that
and and do you have to deal with like
hate
oh i mean everyone does right i mean
that's that comes with putting yourself
out there everyone has to deal with some
level people not liking you or lying
about you or something like that
that unfortunately does come with the
territory and it's something that i've
accepted a long time ago
so it's not something that bothers me
it's not anything that i you know
how do you how do you let it not bother
you how do you do that
i think that's people yeah it's gonna be
different for everyone uh
it's just a matter of just being there
for so long i think at the end of the
day
it's important to recognize that when
somebody's saying these things
you know it's not the worst thing in the
world it's somebody you don't know it's
a stranger you don't know their
situation
it's just you know it is what it is they
felt this strongly and there's nothing
you can do to change their mind
at the end of the day it's out of your
hands and what makes me
feel better about it is like you know
what i don't know that person
they don't really know me they didn't
like this about me and that's fine
i just let sleeping dogs lie in chat if
someone's talking some [ __ ] i'll
obviously joke around and start talking
[ __ ] back at them that's totally
different
that's just more banter between two
people or sometimes it gets a little
more hostile just
but that's just for the sake of having a
little fun conversation or a little
debate
but when it comes to like actually
getting under my skin it doesn't really
anymore
and for people that are new to the
internet i can absolutely see it really
getting them
because it gets vicious especially with
the way twitter is right now
it's like they need everyone to be this
perfect robot
and i think the sooner you accept that
you know
you're never going to be perfect not
everyone's going to like you the better
off you're going to be
and getting thicker skin when it comes
to people that are either just being
mean for the sake of being mean or just
lying for the sake of lying for drama
it's just a matter of being there going
through it and recognizing that it's not
the worst thing in the world
when we say where the way twitter is
nowadays what do you mean by that
well you'll see it all the time i don't
know how often you engage with that
platform the less the better so if
you're not on there often
big congratulations that [ __ ] is [ __ ]
miserable figure it out
yeah it's terrible like when i say with
the way twitter is
if a youtuber so much is like had a wet
fart on a camera
11 years ago it's gonna get dug up and
it's going to be a controversy
if you've made an edgy tweet at any
point over the last decade it's going to
be found
and you're going to get [ __ ] for it and
that's
just kind of the way it is because like
i said i think people really just want
to find
things to be mad about when it comes to
internet people or just in general
so the easiest target is content
creators because everything they do is
public
people will constantly tweet everything
they're feeling
show everything that they're feeling
post everything
so they can easily find something that
gets upset about
and at some point you have to accept
look someone's gonna be mad about
something i've done
and i can't change that i i know what
kind of person i am
it's not what they're saying it is it's
really just not
anything to this level and i just need
to be okay with that going forward
at least that's kind of the mentality
i've adopted i i don't view it as the
worst thing there is when it's
one or two people on twitter that are
like charlie made this tweet 11 years
ago where he said
[ __ ] i don't even know i don't tweet
that much but he said the chupacabra is
real because it [ __ ] his grandfather
but
charlie's grandfather has been dead for
four years he lied to us the chupacabra
didn't have sex with his grandfather
you know i'm not gonna be like wow [ __ ]
now they're mad at me for lying i'm not
a liar
you know yeah
bad example but you get what i'm saying
i couldn't think of any
yeah no i think chupacabra necrophilia
is a great example of something to dig
up
well to be fair i did lie about that
i'll set the record straight the
chupacabra is most likely still a lie he
never had sex with my grandfather
i'll just say it now so charlie like
what do we do about this
that's a great [ __ ] question man
because it's it's like just the general
mindset right you can't change
what people want you can't change what
people have fun engaging with right
people love to be mad and they love to
have someone to be mad at
so what like how do you really fix that
you you can't
it's what people have decided they
personally like
and i don't really know what you do
about it maybe you have a better
suggestion but for me
i just don't really know what you'd do
for it
yeah so i i i don't know i i think
there's a lot we can do
to be honest um i i think uh
and and this could probably i mean this
actually probably due to my
relative naivete it's actually one of my
arguably strengths and weaknesses
um i remember when i was in training
sort of
having a couple of patients that were
sort of like lost causes
kind of thing and i i sort of take on
lost causes
um because i'm in a sense arguably just
too stupid to realize that if a dozen
people have worked with this person
before and they haven't made any
progress
i i don't know why i think i would be
different i don't think it's really
arrogant but i tend to take on
challenges that many of my colleagues
sometimes
wouldn't or you know would kind of say
like hey you're not going to get
anywhere with this person people have
tried
um and so the first thing is that there
could be like sort of a bias there where
you know you kind of say how do you
change someone's
natural predisposition to want to hate
more than be happy
feels like an unsolvable problem right
yeah absolutely and and so but but in my
experience
oftentimes the things that keep us stuck
in life are the things that keep us
from moving forward is because our
diagnosis makes it unsolvable
so the first issue is like if you change
the diagnosis
you may have a treatment sometimes the
reason that actually in fact
if you look at in medicine you know why
don't treatments work
the most common reason that a treatment
doesn't work is because the diagnosis is
wrong
it's like a no-brainer if someone comes
in and
um you know gets diagnosed with
depression
and it turns out that they like their
the reason they have trouble getting out
of bed all the time
is because they have cancer
like that's like it's like night and day
can look like something like it's
you can ask someone hey do you have
trouble getting out of bed do you feel
like doing anything
do you you've lost weight um you know
you don't enjoy the things that you
usually used to enjoy
you feel guilty because you're not able
to work and you're not able to like
be there for your kids like you can
check all the boxes for depression the
actual diagnosis is cancer
then you'd start that person on an
antidepressant medication and then like
the antidepressant medication doesn't
work then they go see another
psychiatrist they go see another
psychiatrist
and at the end of the day like the
problem as you framed it
is the problem itself so if your
question is how do you get people to
stop
preferring hate over happiness that's
tough to answer but even then have we
really tried
right which is kind of interesting have
you tried to take a single person and
try to understand
you know why do you hate instead of
being happy
when people post yeah you want to say
something
i was gonna say yeah that's a really
interesting perspective like maybe
because there is people that'll just
watch someone to hate
watch them right like i know it's become
kind of a meme because train will be
like you know all these hate watchers
dude and [ __ ] like that
but you have there are people that do
that right a hundred percent
so i guess understanding what the
purpose is and what they get out of that
would be kind of interesting to hear
yeah i've ever tried or i know anyone
that has so so i think one of the
failures we've made as a community is
what we do is we call those people toxic
and for understandable reasons we just
ban them
but what we're actually doing is like
judging an
entire world of people as toxic without
ever trying to understand like where
does this come from
and and recently you know it's kind of
interesting so
this may be a little bit of a hot button
topic but
with a lot of the me too stuff that's
come out we've really tried very hard to
support people who are victims of
of inappropriate behavior or sexual
assault
or things like that but there's a
there's a part of me
that actually like wonders sometimes
like
i you know i've worked in a prison and
stuff before and and so i remember when
i was working in a prison sort of asking
myself the question
when did this person become a predator
and when did this person become a
criminal
and what i find myself thinking is that
for some people honestly like they're
straight up like sociopaths
and they were sort of like born that way
and they had like behaviors at the age
of seven or eight that were
was like very very problematic but i
found that for most people you know i
have trouble accepting that like a nine
year old kid or 11 year old kid
or 13 year old kid as a predator and
then something happens in our community
right they grow up in a particular way
like
in some point they become insults and
then they become predators or whatever
but there's still like i i don't i
haven't given up on altering the course
of those people because i've i've worked
with people whose courses have been
altered like i
work with some pro gamers and it's been
interesting to talk to them about when
they were 15 and they were like big
right like so some of these pro gamers
get really good at a really young age
and like
how other people in the scene went out
of their way to like teach them that
some of the things that they were doing
or saying were like not okay
and you know there were like 15 year
olds that were you know saying really
inappropriate racial slurs and like
homophobic slurs or whatever like in
chat because
that's what you do and then i remember
talking to one of these guys and he was
saying that yeah like someone sat me
down
and said like hey you can't be doing
that anymore and his initial response is
why it's just
words and i get the sense that there's
like there's a lack of
understanding and then there's like a
lack of trying to explain to people
that this is a problem and when we label
something as toxic
i mean it makes sense in terms of like
banning people because like you said
there's sort of a contagion effect
of memeing and toxicity right it's like
it's contagious
so you gotta ban the people from the
chat but at the same time i think part
of the reason that we haven't been able
to figure out a solution is because
we've never tried to we've never
diagnosed anything it's like
that person is sick let's like shove
them off to the side and keep them in a
hut
and never use a stethoscope never listen
to their lungs
never look at their eyes look in their
mouth let's not try to diagnose anything
so my sense is that you know we still
have i mean there's some actually like
big things in theory i don't know how we
go about doing that
but sort of exploring toxicity i also
think that
what we've also seen on twitch i think
this is a good example is that
there are toxic communities and they're
also wholesome communities
and that there are people who actually
are members of both
so we see that a lot on our discord
where like we ban people from our
discord for being toxic
and then we actually recently did
something where we like
got them on stream and we tried to get
their perspective like what's your
understanding of why you were banned
what did you do why did you do it and
it's really cool because when you take
these people that have been banned and
are viewed as quote unquote toxic
that once again twitch chat loves to
hate hate on
when you expose their human side i think
five out of the six people on our band
appeal stream
we just we actually left it up to twitch
and we said chat you guys decide
whether we unban them or not and five
five out of six
uh five out of six of the people
got forgiveness and we're allowed back
on the server gotta be
it's gotta be [ __ ] terrible being
that one guy that didn't yeah x-man
four-man
yeah i know so i i feel for that dude
right so i i think though
at the same time like you know five out
of six like i was expecting because you
know twitch loves i mean this is our
perception so i was about to say
something which i think
is a false statement i was about to say
twitch loves pitchforks
youtube loves pitchforks we love
pitchforks lsf loves pitchforks
but i think that statement in and of
itself is like
not expecting more
and i think one of the biggest things
that i've seen is when you expect very
little from another human being
your expectations are met
and when you expect a lot surprisingly
your expectations can often be met
and so i choose to have a little bit
more faith in humanity and
and not to say that you don't have faith
in human i think you have a lot of faith
in humanity
um but i i'm not willing to kind of give
up and i don't think we should because i
don't think we've really like really
honestly tried like i don't know
i mean we have tried a lot of people
have tried you know the
the the victims of the hate have tried
to speak against it in some way
and generally speaking it doesn't work
but i i think we got to figure out
you know some for some of these people
like who do you think or
represe and i i don't mean to be putting
a target on your back so don't answer
this question if you feel like it is
putting a target on your back but who do
you think has like toxic communities
like
who should we be talking to who should
we try to understand presuming that
they're worth understanding
that's a tough question to answer i
can't really off the top of my head
think of like
a toxic community but i can think of a
really good community that i think most
people would agree we
would agree with me on which is moon
moon's community
moon moon has a really really good
community like i think most people could
probably agree with that
when it comes to a toxic one i can't
really think of like
a toxic community on twitch i mean if
you want to like broaden the definition
someone in the chat mentions the smash
community and that's
fair you know with everything that's
gone on there a lot of terrible stuff
but i don't think as a whole everyone
that plays smash is a toxic
predator [ __ ] or anything you know
what i mean so for me it's hard to like
pinpoint a
toxic community one that exists just to
insult everyone else and [ __ ] on
everyone else's fun or anything
what about youtube
um that's a little tougher to answer
because there's just is
so many communities out there but if you
don't mind real quick do you mind if i
run to the bathroom then
no no okay i'll be right back
walls so that's how we that's how we
propagate some of this
this hydratic toxicity right so as when
i call it out
it increases it no but seriously like
what do you guys think i mean do you
think it's okay to call out a community
for being toxic or
naming them that way so
how do you guys think that the how do
you think that the members of those
communities perceive themselves
i mean so people are talking about yeah
do it to them let them defend themselves
i i don't think that's the right
approach right so i think that's what
creates this problem is that
it's an issue of like attack and defense
as opposed to like understanding and and
like you know trying to foster some
amount of cooperation
all right i'm back in it yeah so uh
charlie i i was asking chat in the
meantime like what do you think the
people who are
members of what we describe as toxic
communities quote unquote
what do you think they feel do they view
themselves as toxic or how do they view
themselves
okay i think that's a good question so
in my perspective i think
a hundred percent well okay i can't say
100 but i think an overwhelmingly major
majority would probably say that yeah
i'm being toxic i don't think anyone has
this delusion where it's like
no no this isn't toxic this is actually
constructive i actually think a lot of
people embrace it
i think that's gonna become a trendy
thing to do for some people be like oh
i'm an [ __ ] but
it's just who i am you know you'll see
that in a twitter bio just an [ __ ]
you know
that for some reason that's become
normalized to just kind of be
an [ __ ] yep so i don't think anyone's
gonna try and hide that
but yeah so i it's interesting so i saw
a lot of people say like righteous
what do you think about that oh there's
a hundred oh man you'll see that all
over reddit there's some people that are
like
i am the hero i am the protagonist of
this anime i'm fighting this evil
streamer
or this evil twitter post look at me uh
please
send me your thank yous and the dms and
stuff a hundred percent
there are people that have this delusion
but i don't think the majority would
i think most people recognize yeah i
just don't like i just don't like this
person i'm being [ __ ] about it
i don't think there's so many people out
there believing that there's some
medieval hero riding in on horseback to
save everyone from this evil post
interesting okay i i would have had it
as
flipped really yeah so i think most
human beings tend to do things that
that what i would call or ego syntonic
so ego syntonic versus ego dystonic
means
aligned with who you think you are
versus
not aligned with who you think you are
so a good example of this in psychiatry
is like a lot of people talk about
people who are quote-unquote ocd
that's not ocd so there are two things
one is
ocd which is obsessive compulsive
disorder another thing is
obsessive-compulsive personality
disorder or ocpd
people who are ocpd are control freaks
they really get they love to be in
control they love to like organize
things they get bent out of shape
when things don't go their way but
that's a very ego syntonic thing they
don't think that they're wrong
they don't view themselves as control
freaks they think that everyone else
is like should like you should put the
dishes where they go
not over here they go over there so
that's very ego-syntonic it's aligned
with their identity as a person the
interesting thing is people with true
ocd
it's very egotistic they know that it's
ridiculous that they have to turn on the
light
seven switch the light switch seven
times every time they walk into the room
they know it's idiotic they know there's
no reason to do it
and yet they can't help themselves it
actually causes them to stress
but they have to engage in the
compulsions or the obsessions anyway
so in one hand like ocd is actually very
ego dystonic where people don't like
that they have to do these things
and ocpd or like what we think of as
yeah i'm super ocd that's just who i am
that's very ego syntonic right so i'm
just an [ __ ] that's who i am is a
very ego syntonic way of thinking it's
like
it actually causes that person no
distress that they're an [ __ ]
so my sense is that generally speaking
people don't behave in a way that is
first of all ego-dystonic so they
believe in a way that feels aligned with
who they are as a person
and that righteousness is very ghost and
tonic
and i think is very very common um
especially on the internet where you
have people like putting other people in
their place
yeah maybe just maybe my perspective is
a little distorted because of twitter in
particular because on there it is so
common for people
for people to just outright be like yup
i'm an [ __ ]
i made this account just to be an
[ __ ] and
i'm just just going to keep you know
doing these things you know being an
[ __ ]
so maybe it's not as common as i think
it is maybe it's just a confirmation
bias where i'm just seeing it more often
because of that
so maybe you're absolutely right i have
no idea well interestingly enough what
you said actually makes me
more inclined to take your viewpoint not
less because what you're saying is if
it's based on twitter
that sounds to me like you actually you
have real data whereas i have hypotheses
well i mean it's all anecdotal right
like i don't have actual data it's just
what i see when i go on twitter and i
see these people
like when you see something bad happen
you'll have a bunch of people making all
these edgy remarks or making all these
like terrible things they say about the
person
and then you go on their their profile
and that's all they do that's their
entire online identity and they embrace
it
they wear it like a badge of honor like
a little boy scout badge or something so
i just see it a lot on there and i think
maybe that's just kind of
distorted the way i view how common it
is
yeah so the interesting thing is i
wonder if i talk to one of those people
who describe themselves as an [ __ ]
i don't think they feel like an [ __ ]
i think they feel righteous
and they recognize disagree okay yeah i
really feel like
if let's say you brought someone on your
show that you know recently made some
kind of terrible remark about chadwick
boseman or something
i think if you brought them on their
show on your show they would still keep
this persona up maybe they might not
actually be a genuine degenerate [ __ ]
but i feel like
given any internet attention or any
anonymity they're going to continue to
be that way
i don't think they try and hide it i
think they'd embrace it they'd feel like
the joker from the batman series i
completely agree with you but now let's
let's so i
agree with you i think they'd maintain
the persona but the persona that you
maintain in the feelings that you have
are oftentimes in fact usually
in harsh conflict a persona
even if we think about the word persona
a persona
is a false self that we think about just
the definition
right it's a false self
so if a persona is a false self and
you're saying
this person would maintain the persona
that implies that what they are on the
inside
is not what they're portraying ergo
they would not actually feel like
[ __ ] the [ __ ] is the front
that they put on because there's
something else underneath
yeah and that's entirely possible a
hundred percent it's just hard to know
if it even is a persona right like i say
that
having the belief that maybe they're not
this piece of [ __ ]
but maybe they just are maybe yes
i mean i i think i i tend to be curious
i think we've had actually a lot of
really interesting
um explorations with people that i think
are generally viewed as toxic
so we had a couple of interesting
streams with women like female gamers
and then also like women who get hit on
by men online
um and the really interesting thing at
the end of both of those streams is the
women were like yeah we'd love to see
you do this with a group of
the people on the other side of the
table like
find a group of toxic male gamers and
just ask them like why are you guys
toxic in games or people who
you know will send like inappropriate
messages to women online
or i mean a lot of times what they were
complaining about is not even like
inappropriate messages it's sort of like
persistence and kind of like
guilt-tripping and [ __ ] like that that
that people do
they're like oh you're not yeah yeah
that's become super common right like
you see that on twitch all the time like
i've been subbed for this long and you
don't even remember my name
it's like you don't care why you know
don't you know i'm lonely and i'm here
for this and that like that's something
super common these days
interesting i'd love to know why people
do that because you know where do they
get the expectation from right
and then that makes that puts all the
onus on the streamer to be like feeling
bad
for not knowing all these things about
this person and i think that's a
terrible thing as well
it's not like your traditional toxic
male to female streamer thing like show
me your tits [ __ ] you know i've been
subbed
but it's just as you know it's just as
annoying and just as frustrating right
to have this person that's been there
for so long start blaming you for not
knowing everything about their life
what's frustrating about that it
shouldn't be a
streamer's responsibility to kind of be
like the mom and dad or the girlfriend
to someone that's been subbed for a long
time
if you know if they don't have an
interest in doing that at the end of the
day
the streamers there to put on a show and
be entertaining and just be there for
somebody
not necessarily to be this pillar in
their life
and to make them feel bad for not doing
that i think is just as toxic
does that happen to you no not really i
make it pretty clear with my community
like this kind of parasocial
relationship isn't a healthy thing
so i don't really encourage it and i
think people understand that like i know
a lot of my chats names because i'm good
with names and i make an effort to at
least
know what's going on with some of the
regulars because i treat chat like
friends
i think that's you know i think that's
good to have a community that you can
joke around with know a little bit about
but at the end of the day
i'm not their mom i'm not their dad i'm
not their either babysitter or anything
i'm just there to have some fun with
them talk about some [ __ ]
joke around and i no one's ever made me
feel bad for not knowing certain things
about their life or forgetting something
but i know it does happen in other
streams you see it on twitter all the
time where a streamer will post
something
from someone that's been subbed for 21
months who's now you know threatening to
kill themselves because the streamer
hasn't acknowledged them in the last two
resubs or some crazy [ __ ]
yeah i think that too is something that
is worth understanding because i think
we sort of get
yeah i i don't know exactly what to do
about that but i i think it's kind of
interesting because you sort of say you
show up and you treat them like friends
and at the same time you're pretty clear
about the boundaries of the parasocial
relationship
and i think one of the the interesting
actually one of the advantages of twitch
i think part of what makes twitch an
awesome platform is that people do feel
connected
you know they yeah there's no yeah i
want to make it clear like there's
nothing wrong with like connecting with
a streamer that's a lot of times how you
find the community
like i mentioned moon moon i guarantee
most of the people in moon moon's chat
feel a connection with him
but i don't think it's to this level
where they're going to be aggressive or
angry if moon moon doesn't acknowledge
their sub or maybe forgets their name or
something like that or doesn't see every
message
but that does happen and that's an
equally toxic thing
what do we do about that oh i have no
idea that's just such an individual
level i don't know how you teach that i
think it's just people
not understanding you know social
relationships right
it's people that don't have a real world
experience to know what's acceptable and
what's not acceptable when it comes to a
stranger and
at the end of the day it really is still
a stranger you don't know the streamer
personally
you don't know everything about them so
it's just someone you're familiar with
and
it's all about knowing when is the right
time to
try and connect if you want to and
knowing when you probably shouldn't do
that
and i think a lot of people don't have
that because people grow up with so much
access to the internet that they just
lose that ability to find these things
yeah i i do wonder if there's something
so it's interesting we've done
actually like a couple of trainings for
content creators before
um where we sort of teach them actually
how to set boundaries because i i wonder
if some of this stuff is actually just
so it sounds like you set a pretty firm
limit with your community and your
community knows what to expect
in terms of their you're there to hang
out you're there to you know provide
entertainment
and that you're not their mom or dad
i i i was really surprised and in some
sense heartened to find that
a lot of streamers do actually
go out of their way to try to like
support
and connect with their community
actually especially some of the smaller
streams
um yeah and and that
it's interesting because i can see how
that could create the feelings that
we're talking about but also i think is
like not
not in and of itself a bad thing i think
it's just about limit setting
and boundaries but in and of itself is
not like a
bad thing that streamers and communities
are connected
yeah i don't think it's like evil i
don't think streamers that try and form
this bond between community and
themselves or
you know dumb or bad people for doing
that it's just
when that when it becomes this level of
unhealthiness you have to understand
some individuals aren't going
to understand where's too far where that
line is
and you'll have them having their entire
[ __ ] week ruined
if you miss their resub or something and
it's not the streamer's fault right
it's just this person doesn't really
understand it
so it's just knowing the boundaries and
making it pretty clear on
you know the expectation i guess yeah
having a hard
time phrasing that in a way that sounds
cohesive no i
thought she did great i think it's you
know you
like you said i think it's about
expectation you use that word several
times
and where people get that expectation
i'm also hearing from your
words or sort of your statements that
like somewhere along the way like
interactions on the internet sometimes
people
aren't don't understand like they just
haven't been taught like what
is appropriate or not appropriate which
also sort of makes sense because no one
teaches you internet etiquette
right you get taught actually like by
your parents and other people how to
behave around other human beings
no one teaches you that on the internet
yeah
and if you don't have that experience
around human beings like you're kind of
[ __ ] right yeah you're just out here
blind with your
in your hand like you don't know how to
act and i feel bad for those people you
really do
and i think that kind of goes back to
like toxic communities because i think
in
a lot of situations like we don't
understand or maybe they don't
understand
i think it's a little bit arrogant to
assume that these people aren't educated
and we are more educated and more
enlightened
um but at the same time i do wonder i
think a lot of this me too stuff is like
frankly a lot of it sounds like you know
dudes who just don't know how to
interact with women
for the most part some of it is like
malicious and predatory but i think a
lot of it it's just
you know like dudes just don't know how
to act
like they don't know how to talk they
don't know how to interpret signals they
don't
they just don't know i don't know
what you think about that but i what i
only know the smash stuff and as far as
smash goes like that's
that's more than just not knowing how to
act that's some terrible like degenerate
[ __ ]
uh so i i'm not familiar with the smash
stuff what
oh man you might want to save yourself a
headache like every
bad [ __ ] thing you can imagine was
happening in the smash community
i know there definitely is sometimes
someone's just like post this twit
longer about maybe a bad date they had
with somebody online
and i could totally see why that would
be uncomfortable but it's not like the
person was evil just because
you know they don't know how to talk in
a first date i definitely get that
but then there's also of course the
really malicious predators that do
terrible [ __ ] [ __ ]
oh wow i didn't realize things were that
bad but okay
yeah it was the smash community is it's
it's in shambles right now dr k
it's it's uh it's it's rough
okay maybe
maybe we'll look into that and see if
there's some way we can help
yeah i mean maybe that'd be a good
community to look into right now i mean
they've gone through a lot of what we've
already talked about right like they've
had a lot of those things pop
up and they've had a lot of cases where
a lot of people that looked up to these
streamers
turns out the streamers were doing
terrible things so maybe like getting
involved in that community to see
where to go from there what to what to
fix going forward
because they could use some [ __ ]
guidance they had the worst ideas
they so a lot of it had to do with like
you know
child predators that a lot of the people
in the smash community were kids
and one of their suggestions was to mark
kids with a colored band and an
x on their hands at all in-person events
so that way older people would know not
to try and [ __ ] them
like they have the worst ideas on how to
handle this [ __ ] it's terrible
yeah so they could use some guidance and
it's a it's rough
i mean yeah i don't even know what to
think about that i
i guess like because we do have like you
know we do have like you know you a
wristband or whatever for like
alcohol at parties or whatever right so
i mean it's not
it's not that crazy of an idea i think
the way that you frame it though is
speaks that oh no no no it wasn't that
it was like we are going to give
children a rape whistle and if their
parents aren't holding their hands
they're not allowed in here because we
can't trust our adults in this community
yeah right so i think that's that's
awful because it's sort of
you know the solution there is not to do
something with the kid i think it's to
do something with the adult
100 yeah i think that would be the
rational approach so charlie i'm
noticing we've kind of meandered around
a little bit is there something else
that you want to talk about or
i mean we sort of talked about toxicity
talked a little bit about
how you're a warm and fuzzy human being
nothing in particular man i just want to
compliment you on the good work you do
if you don't mind me sucking your dick a
little bit like i think you do a
great job i think it's really important
work you do before
i maybe i'm wrong but before you came
along on twitch i don't think anyone was
ever even really talking about
a lot of the subjects that you like to
cover and i think that's an important
thing to do
to both help improve the community
around and just get people thinking
about
themselves and the platform they engage
on so just great work man
yeah man thank you very much i you know
i appreciate the the appreciation
um i that actually means a lot charlie
because i respect you a lot i respect
your thoughts
i think you're a good thinker like
comment on things like that's what i was
saying i recently discovered your
content i really like the way that you
think and you break apart problems
actually
um the way that you go through and
analyze things so to have
to get your seal of approval actually
means a lot to me
um and yeah
thank you very much man well hey anytime
man i appreciate the kind words i think
this has all been a really great
conversation and
who knows maybe we'll see something
great come from it you know maybe down
the line you do talk to some of these
communities and these people and we get
a little better understanding of exactly
what goes on and why some of these
behaviors like
hate watching and just generally feeling
better being mad as opposed to happy
persists yeah like i think that'd be
very interesting to learn about
charlie can i ask you one last question
and then we can talk about meditation
for a second
absolutely so my question is um so
what can i do what should i do
and you don't have to answer it now um
but
but i i you know so i like i said i
appreciate your ability to look at
problems and analyze them and i think if
you've watched some of our content
and and the positive feedback you've
given to me so you know these people you
know the youtube community better than i
do you know the twitch community
better than i know you know the twitter
community better than i do
if you were to think about me as a
resource to deploy
which is really what i'm asking like
what what should i do
man that is that is a tough one um
i guess what i would start with if i if
i was to
launch the icbm known as dr k yes i
would immediately start on twitter
that would be the first place i'd target
because i think a lot of the general
like mindset the mind frame of a lot of
these people
is born from twitter twitter i think is
just that the past time a lot of people
take where when they're not doing
something twitter's just so easily
accessible
easily digestible that they will just
find these things and get locked in this
echo chamber and these psycho fans
and they'll just start to adopt these
beliefs and these mindsets where
i'm happier when i'm mad i like to be
mad and i just want to stay mad
and i think getting to the root of where
that kind of comes from
in maybe a group i don't know what group
you'd start with but maybe like a
prominent group where this seems to be
common
and figure out why they prefer that as
opposed to some
better content where they're not [ __ ]
fuming nine hours a day
because i mean people treat twitter like
it's a job they'll be on twitter for
nine hours
spamming all kinds of [ __ ] replying back
and forth you'll it's not uncommon to
see an account have 200 000 tweets right
like why waste their time doing that
what do they personally get out of it
do they feel fulfilled are they even
happy doing it what's the point
that would be where i'd start i wouldn't
know where to start but
the target would be twitter for me okay
so you feel like twitter
is is where you know the
the nexus of the tumor is oh
i i would say that is the genesis of a
lot of the
the the things we're seeing and talking
about when it comes to like toxicity and
like
general [ __ ] weird loser mentalities
not to call everyone a loser but you
know what i'm saying
i think that's where it kind of stems
from is they see
these posts have so many likes and so
much engagement
that are really negative and so they'll
start doing it maybe to get the same
fulfillment i don't know
i can only speculate interesting that's
not what i was expecting
um you know i had thought that that
maybe what i should focus on is people
who dedicate
themselves to making negative content
so the content as opposed to the
audience
yeah so like thinking about what
motivates someone to make
uh a certain kind of content but which i
guess sort of qualifies as twitter right
because
in twitter what happens is you have the
audience making masses of content
so the the content creator and the
audience become one
in twitter so now that i'm thinking
about it actually sort of makes sense
because twitter is the place where
everyone makes content right
yeah like i mean the content is every
post right so yeah
so so it's one where the audience eats
and you get to see the audience in a way
that oftentimes you don't on other
platforms
um interesting
cool man thank you very much yeah of
course and
my apologies in advance if you do choose
twitter you're gonna have a [ __ ]
headache man like that is
that is rough yeah we'll see right
um yeah and and are you interested in in
the deal talking about meditation for a
minute or like learning how to meditate
if you don't already
sure yeah i'd love to hear more about it
i've never done it myself i tried it
when i was in college once or twice but
that's a that's a
very hard field to kind of master and
figure out
sure so um
can i think for a second yeah by all
means man no rush
actually if you don't mind give me just
one more second sure i'll be right back
okay chat we're gonna do something a
little bit more
advanced today okay all right i'm sorry
about that
no problem man how is that you did you
get your starlight rare
i wish i wish i just pulled it out over
there believe it or not i actually have
three of the second most valuable
starlight rare there is
there's more than one starlight rare oh
yeah there's like five per
every three sets or something like that
oh interesting
i thought so um
charlie what's your understanding of
what meditation is
the way i understand meditation is it's
a short period of time where you clear
every single thought and problem
for pretty much as long as you can and
just kind of
be right you just kind of sit on your
own
without any kind of thoughts or anything
weighing you down more or less it's
basically just a clean slate for x
amount of time
sort of that's how i understood it okay
that's that's actually like a pretty
good starting point
so one of the goals of meditation
is to shut off your mind so in the east
they believe that
you as a person as a being are not
your mind in the same way that we're not
our body
right so like if i like this is my hand
i even describe it with the word
my which presumes for a moment that it's
an
object that is not me so my pen
my hand my finger my fingernail
so you don't right so use the possessive
the interesting thing is we also
so people generally speaking know that
they're not their body like in theory if
i were to have an accident
and lose a finger i wouldn't be like
changed as a person
the like i may change in some ways like
it i may sort of suffer some sense of
identity problem or something like that
i may mourn i may feel like i'm deformed
or all kinds of things can happen
but at the end of the day like me still
exists
and so the interesting thing is that
most of us sort of understand that
our body is just our body and that we're
not necessarily our body somewhat
connected of course
related interconnected it becomes more
difficult when it when it comes to the
mind because we tend to think that our
mind is
us so our sense of like self-worth our
sense of identity
um you know sort of being a neat or you
know being
successful or not successful being a
streamer being a gamer being a doctor
call it whatever you want to we
these are all the identifications of the
mind we tend to think that that's who we
are
so meditation is actually the systematic
process of trying to discover the true
self
which is actually outside of body and
outside of mind
and as a result of that we sort of get
to practices that do what you kind of
describe which is to shut off your mind
or to exist with awareness outside of
mind
with me so far okay i'm feeling you
so what i'm going to teach you today is
actually like a practice that i think is
pretty useful for
addiction i don't think you're addicted
to anything but it's just something that
i've been
i've been sort of teaching a couple of
the same things and i actually think
that
i know this is going to sound bizarre
charlie but i think you're spiritually a
little bit you're not actually a noob
when it comes to spirituality so i'm
going to teach you a slightly more
rigorous practice if that's okay
true so what i'm going to tell you is is
first of all
the first step of meditation is the
concentration of awareness
it is letting your awareness or your
attention go
where you want it to and if there is
one basic weakness that we have as a
society it is not being able to control
our attention so a lot of people say
that i'm not
disciplined right so what discipline
really is is it's the focus of attention
it's not it's really not anything else
it's just putting your attention where
you want it to go so if i sit down in
front of a book and i say
it's time to study and then i point my
attention at this book and then i say
i'm going to read these words
and then what happens is our mind
wanders all over the place right and so
then i'm not able to study
and what we perceive is discipline is
someone who can actually control their
attention
i'm going to think about and focus the
attention of my mind or being where i
want it when i want it
and it's that basic skill which
separates like
people who are successful from people
who aren't
so the next thing to think about is what
does pull our attention in different
places
so the most common thing that pulls our
attention in different places
are the sense organs or the indriyas so
case in point we were talking about
earlier like if we use the word hydra
dick
then a lot of people see that word they
hear that word
in their mind pay attention right so i'm
tempting them so i want you to notice
because i'm trying to evoke it at them
now everyone is thinking about that and
wanting to type that so already what
i've done is i've used a sensory
input and their mind's attention is
automatically going in that direction
so notice that right so all it takes is
the senses to control the attention of
your mind
so we can think about that in terms of
like oh if you see a yu-gi-oh pack
or i talk to you about a yu-gi-oh pack
this is something you're hearing
something you're seeing and then your
mind's attention
goes to the yu-gi-oh pack i smell
alcohol i see people drinking i smell
like a burger cooking or like a hot dog
vendor and then my attention goes there
and then my behavior follows my
attention
with me yeah makes sense so what i'm
going to teach you today
is the practice of separating your
indriyas or your sense organs from your
attention
i'm going to teach you a practice so
that you can literally
learn how to control your mind and what
we're going to do
is separate the indirect from the sense
organ in a very very simple sense
so what i'm going to do is show you
something called
the sri yantra okay so this is a little
bit it has a religious background but
you guys don't have to worry about the
religious part of it it really doesn't
matter
um this is uh so let me just think about
how to do this
okay so y'all aren't going to be able to
see moist's face because i can't figure
out how to do that
and you can't see anything yet right
me i see the the screen the the red
okay so this is the sri yantra okay so
this is what i want you to do i'm going
to zoom in a little bit
okay so can you see the dot
in the middle yes okay so what i want
you to do
and so that i want all you guys to do
this okay so i want you to look at the
dot
and just stare directly at the dot
and then what i want you to do is don't
look anywhere else and it's okay to
blink if you want to okay so just take a
moment to stare at the dot
looking at it yeah i feel like i'm about
to be like mind controlled or something
to rob a bank for you
uh close you're about to send me your
entire yu-gi-oh collection
i'm out all right this is not this okay
so what i want you to do is
notice uh uh charlie as you as you look
at the dot like what your mind is doing
is your mind focused on the dot along
with your eyes
or does your mind kind of fluctuate
between the dot and other things
fluctuate okay so now what i want you to
do
is look at the dot and put your
attention
don't look elsewhere but put your
attention on the
the red outside the blue box
you see there's like a red square
outside the blue box
yeah so look at the dot but put your
attention on the red
does that make sense yeah and now i want
you to move to the blue square
with your attention but don't stop
looking at the dot
can you move your attention to the blue
yeah i think so i think okay
and now i want you to notice that there
are circles
inside the blue square
and continue looking at the dot but then
tell me what c
what color or the circles inside the
blue square
yellow okay are there others
i think yellow red yellow okay
so now move further in what's inside the
three
circles the blue circle
okay and then what's inside the blue
circle
red okay
and what's inside red what what does it
look like
like uh like rose petals it looks like
okay
okay and then move further inside so
keep staring at the dot
it's okay to blink but let your
attention
move closer so what's inside the pink
rose petals red rose petals
looks like another another little ring
of what color
it's like a darker yellow okay and then
keep on moving inward so let your
attention
move to the next layer in what's next
it's another yellow circle okay and then
green triangles k
red triangles k blue triangles
okay red triangles okay
dot okay
so what did you notice about how easy it
was to
attend to things as they came closer to
your site
oh yeah it was a lot easier the outside
was a real struggle
yep right so so yeah
go ahead i just couldn't figure out what
i what i was seeing over there
getting pictures of bigfoot or something
for all i could tell so what we can see
what we can notice first of all is that
awareness loves being close to our
senses
you see that it's just a relief it
requires so much
strain to pull your awareness away from
your senses
would you agree with that agreed so now
we are first of all understand why
studying is hard
because in studying like our attention
wants to wander somewhere else and it's
like
our injuries and our mind is going
somewhere else it's hard to focus it to
where you want to go
so now what we're going to do is we're
going to do this practice again so we're
going to do it for about two minutes
i want you to just close your eyes for a
second okay
and just go ahead and recalibrate so
chat did you guys understand that
okay so now what we're gonna do uh
charlie is we're gonna start again and i
want you to open your eyes and look at
the red dot
okay and what i want you to do is just
fluctuate your attention so you can
decide you can move from the outside in
or the inside out
but i want you to move your attention to
different layers
of the picture okay and just practice
moving it
in and out and focusing on something
focusing on another thing
if you want to you are noticing um
you know the colors of the triangles but
between the triangles there are also
shapes so there are shapes created by
the negative space
okay so you can even notice those
but we're going to practice for two
minutes and just if you want to the
simplest way is just start from the
furthest outside and go in and then go
back out but you can also just bounce
around play with it
okay then uh we'll try and freestyle
this here
okay okay so i'm gonna start inside
and just kind of go out so okay red dot
red triangles and there's like
in the negative space it's like a little
yellow
i don't know what they called the
four-sided shape not the square but the
one that's on its side like a rhomboid
yep it's blue triangles
yellow skinnier rhomboids
i sound like a [ __ ] psychopath red
triangle okay so so pause for a second
notice how
you judge yourself for not coming up
with the right word right you see how
that thought popped up
yeah so so for a moment your attention
actually deviated completely away from
the practice and entered a judgment
yeah damn so so that's okay so and then
once again you judge yourself
for judging yourself so return your
attention to the dot okay start in the
dot and don't tell me what you see
so let's take that off your plate so be
silent
and just fluctuate your attention play
around with it do whatever you want to
we're gonna ask everyone to be silent
for like
let's say about two minutes
and just move your attention between the
layers
keep going we're halfway there
you
and now go ahead and close your eyes
and notice that in the space in front of
your mind
you may see an image
what do you see anything yeah i see the
blue square
the yellow ring red a red ring inside
the yellow ring and then the yellow ring
again
beautiful so just focus don't stop
focusing so continue
looking at the image and continue the
practice with your eyes closed
so focus on the center
or keep your mental eye on the center
and let your attention fluctuate between
the layers and just
see with your eyes closed
i don't know if this makes sense but do
your best not to lose it
does that make sense yeah it's weird huh
don't lose it
hold on i'm trying it's like a tug of
war right now
yes this is meditation
when you win this war you will control
yourself
i'm gonna open my eyes and it turns out
i'm like levitating above my chair or
something
okay so your attention has wandered so
go ahead and stop
when you're ready open your eyes yeah
i had it for quite a while i'll say a
lot longer than i thought i would
good so questions
yeah how so this exercise right here i
imagine this is one you've done
a lot of times sort of
something similar yeah how long did it
take you of doing these exercises before
you finally like got the hang of it
that's a hard question
so here's what my experience with
meditation is you think you get the hang
of it
and then the cool thing is like you
start to get the hang of other things
i'm still getting the hang of it and i'm
also really good at it
so i'll give you just an example so i do
a particular mantra so this is something
called a yantra which is like a physical
symbol
that's actually like it's actually like
magic so if you really look at the
tradition of
of yantra which is part of the tantric
or tantra
branch of meditation if you really
describe it it's kind of like magic
but anyway i don't really put a whole
lot of stock into that but i do a mantra
so mantra is the chanting of a
particular syllab
syllable to cultivate a particular kind
of energy
not really very actually there's some
science to it if we're being fair but
not not really scientific at all so it
took me some amount of time let's say a
period of about
two weeks to be able to sit and
concentrate on the montreal fully
but when you say get the hang of it i'd
say after a
couple of years it's hard to say
um it's hard to describe but i started
seeing my mantra
in other things so i
heard when you close your eyes yeah
that's a yantra so mantra is a sound
so i started to hear the sound of my
mantra in
the rhythm of life is the best way i can
describe it
and it's kind of the best indicator i
can give you is like close your eyes
and listen to the sound of your breath
can you hear it no i don't hear a
[ __ ] thing
okay that's like deep breath so deep
breath
good so go ahead breathe good
so the anyway so i know this is going to
sound kind of weird but have you heard
that sound anywhere else
it is the only time i would have ever
really heard that sound that i can think
of is maybe during like some big
physical exertion where i'm like
you know panting or on the verge of
collapsing like what pops to mind is
when i used to play basketball right
okay how close are you to uh the ocean
oh not not close okay so one day if you
get the chance
and you're at the ocean i would listen
to the sound of the ocean
and then listen to the sound of your
breath
and see if they sound similar they sound
different
so this is kind of a leading exercise
right so what i discovered it was it's
hard to describe but what i found is
that my mantra is like
a very fundamental sound that can be
heard in many many many many places
and so in a sense i felt like that's
when i really started getting the hang
of it
and so the goal of meditation is you
start to discover things and like learn
things about yourself about
a universe we're talking really culty
but honestly that's what it's
like hard to describe but it's like it's
sort of like you know when i ask you the
experience of is it
you know you learn something fundamental
today when you look at that thing and
you're like
it's so difficult to see the outside and
it's so easy to see the inside
and what you're literally doing is doing
push-ups for your mind where you're
training your attention to go where you
decide
instead of it following your indriyas or
your sense organs
if you become free of your indriyas
in terms of where your attention goes
your life will be completely different
if we think about someone who's
disciplined they smell a burger and they
order a salad
what is that it's separation from
attention from the indira
separation from the attention to the
indriya is one of the most crucial
skills and we don't teach it to people
and you can start with this practice
because literally all it is there's
nothing to there's no
significance it's just a sterile
environment it's a sandbox
where you put your indoria in one place
and you put your attention somewhere
else
and it's [ __ ] hard and then what
happens is you close your eyes and you
see that after image
and then i tell you charlie hold
on and you're like it's a war you're
damn right it's a war
and when you start winning that war when
you wake up one day and you say on
january 1st i'm gonna go to the gym
every day
there's that thought and it's really
easy and you're highly motivated on
january 2nd
that start thought starts to pull away
because you haven't learned how to hold
on
you don't know how to hold on to
something that's slipping away from your
mind
this is a practice that literally you do
push-ups
to hold on to what you choose to hold on
to
and you get better at it
and then you'll be able to go upstairs
yeah it's that simple
but it's very difficult so practice i'll
send you a link for the sri yantra if
you
are interested it's good if you want to
i i would get
i would get a physical picture so you're
not looking at a screen though
but it's a good yantra to start with um
and
it you know it also sent me all your
yugioh card
don't you ever say we don't even joke
about that in this holy sanctuary
they have a lasting home they don't need
to go anywhere any other questions
no man i've just really enjoyed this i
really appreciate you having me on
yeah it's been fun for me too charlie i
really appreciate the work you do man
oh thank you and i appreciate your work
as well all right man
take care you too have a great are you
going to keep streaming
nope are you streaming no no no i was
just going to say have a great rest of
the stream but if you're
heading out yeah if you were streaming
i'd rate you but
okay that's sweet all right take care
man bye thanks here
okay that was cool